Table of Contents






1. Introduction
APT1 is one of the most adept (publicly known) Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) groups in operation right now. APT1 has been
attributed to be People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Unit 61398, a specialized Chinese cyber threat actor with advanced technical
skills and English language background. APT1 first made headlines after Mandiant (FireEye) released a ground-breaking report
detailing a concerted espionage campaign against public and private entities in several countries, mainly English-speaking,
western countries, and a clear majority of which are based in the United States.

The APT1 report lead to the first international indictment against three known, specific threat actors. The United States
Government indicted these three hackers and demanded they be extradited to the United States. Their demands, as of the point of
writing, have not been met. The report also brought state-sponsored espionage to the forefront, and began the discussion on the
theft of Intellectual Property (IP) and trade secrets.

The APT1 report also lead to the international discussion on Threat Intelligence, one of the primary focuses of this project.
The intelligence community, both private and public, began focusing on codenames like Fancy Bear and Cyber Berkut, as did the
mainstream media. Before that point in time, attention was mainly focused around the less technical actors with less complex
attacks. It was much simpler to explain a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack than it is to explain a months long breach
of national security in a windowless basement of a room. After the APT1 report, though, media attention flew straight to the
implication of Chinese hackers in American systems, Chinese companies stealing trade secrets and ruining American economic
opportunities.

The APT1 report truly was groundbreaking. Because of that, the majority of this section of the project is based upon that
report. All credit goes to Mandiant/FireEye and the authors of the APT1 report, who will be directly credited in the References
portion of this section.





  
















2.1 Mandiant APT1 Report
APT1 was the name put to Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Unit 61398, or the Third General Staff Department (GSD), Second
Bureau, first coined in the breakthrough paper by Mandiant in February of 2013. The paper detailed an extremely professional,
well manned and even better funded Advanced Persistent (APT) Threat group. Conservative estimates placed the manpower in the
hundreds or thousands, and an extremely high financial backing. The report was a first of its kind, a formalized, technological
look at a concerted, state-backed cyber campaign aimed at espionage and theft of intellectual property (IP). Throughout the
report, technical and logistical details paint a picture at just how organized this campaign was, the effectiveness of the cyber
network operations (CNO), and gave a very personal look at the top three operators working for APT1. The paper directly lead to
the first international indictment against a foreign cyber operative (FCO) and changed the threat landscape by highlighting just
how serious cyber espionage was beginning to be.




